	We are studying Baryonic Acoustic Oscillations (BAO) in order to determine the concentration of dark matter in the universe as a function of redshift.  Following the methods in Anderson et. al. 2012, we began by replicating the correlation function measument on the data from CMASS.  The initial experiment found BAO imprints in phase space near 150 Mpc.
	The CMASS sample from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 9 contains a sample of 207,246 galaxies in he northen sample.  The CMASS sample is divided into two regions of sky to incorporate as much area as possible given different viewing conditions.  To create the correlation function, we use one of the estimators from Landy and Szalay 1993:
	E(r) = (DD - 2DR + RR)/RR
where D is our CMASS data set and R is random over the same area of sky.  The random catalog is generated using random statistics over the same area of sky surveyed in the data sample.  DD repersents a pair of galaxies, with the first and second galaxies both coming from data set D.  DR represents a pair of galaxies with the first galaxy coming from the data set and the second galaxy coming from the random catalog.
      Proper normalization for our data is by the total number of galaxy pairs.  If Nd is the number of galaxies in D and Nr is the number of galaxies in R, then the normalization would be:
      DD = <DD>/((Nd(Nd-1))/2)
      DR = <DR>/(Nd*Nr)
      RR = <RR>/((Nr(Nr-1))/2)
for each data set.
    The random sample contains millions of galaxies.  To determine the distance between galaxies, we needed to find the comoving coordinates for each of the galaxies.  This can be done using a flat cosmology without a radiation term.  These comoving coordinates account for the expansion of the universe.
    Proper weighting is also by galaxy pair.  Each weight for our histograms is also by galaxy pair.  The true weight for each galaxy in w1*w2, where w1 is the appropriate weight for the first galaxy int he pair and w2 is the weight for the second galaxy in the pair. These weights do not change the results.  Rather, they better the statistics. To determine the proper weighting of the galaxies in the data set D, we must combine four given weights:
    wfkp - shot-noise weight
    wsys - systematic weight
    wrf - redshift-failure weight
    wcp - close-pari weight
The total weight is given by: wtot = wfkp*wsys*(wrf + wcp -1).  These total weights are then used to determine the galaxy pair weighting.
    We have developed two separate methods to create the correlatino function.  Both methods use a lookup table for absolute lacations upon calculating the comoving coordinates for each galaxy, rather than calculating the absolute distance for each pair of galaxies individually.  We developed a program that will use this lookup table to loop through the tables we are interested in to find the distances between every two galaxies.  To avoid double counting, we designed the program to only determine these values for every object to every other galaxy.  We thus avoid counting it again in reverse.  This method iterates through each table we input in a triangle and suitably normalizes the data according to the number of galaxy pairs in each table.  This process is very time intensive and requires more computing power than to which we have access.
    The second method was conceived as a faster alternative to our first method.  The computation time for the entire field is not much faster, but this method allows us to look at smaller areas of sky to look for phase space features.  We created a program to select all galaxies within a certain area of sky.  Once we have the galaxies binned into sections, we can run the program from method one to get a feel for the features inherent in the sky.  Theoretically, these features should be seen in phase space at around 150 Mpc.  To effectively see these in our results, we must safely contain the maximum, each cell must be bigger than the feature we wish to see.  The minimum redshift should account for these features. This is due to galaxy biasing.  The closest redshift provides the largest source of searching error.   The BAO signal should decrease with an increase in redshift, so the minimum redshift for our signal will be the minimum area we need to contain. Using a cosmology calculator from www.kempner.net, we found the maximum angular diamter distance to be about 1,100 Mpc.  This was calculated using these parameters:
    H0 = 67.04
    Om = 0.3813
    Ol = 0.6817
    z = 0.4
where H0 is the hubble paramter, Om is the cosmological constant associated with matter, Ol is the cosmological constant, and z is the minimum redshift.
      Our total sky area encompasses a Right Ascension range from 108 to 264 degrees and a Declination range from -4 to 57 degrees of sky.  To safely contain the projected BAO signal, we decided to make each cell twice the size of the anticipated signal.  This amount of sky should easily account for the features.  Using the minimum angular diamter distance from above, we determined that the amount of degrees for each cell should be 15 degrees along the equator and 30 degrees in right ascension.  This provides a 4 x 5 grid for our total area of sky.  Since there are so few cells, there are still large numbers of galaxies in our cells and computation time is still a concerns.
      We tried smaller cells to see the features, but there has been no conclusive results of these BAO signals in these smaller cells.  Conversely, when we run the size cell we want to use, the terminal shuts down and causes an application memory error.  The size of the cells are too big to complete the program at all.
      
